DISCORD + INGAME RULES
---

1.    No Abusing
We're all in this together to create a welcoming environment. Let's treat everyone with respect.
2.    No Racism/Bullying
Bullying of any kind isn't allowed, and degrading comments about things such as race, religion, culture, sexual orientation, gender or identity will not be tolerated.
3.    Respectful Conduct
Give everyone a fair chance. Keep it friendly when speaking in all our channels.
4.    Self Promoting YouTube/Twitch/Groups
Give more to this group than you take. Self-promotion is allowed, however spam is not. Do not post constantly, promoting yourself. This can be done in #⏩community-content .
5.    Respect Others Privacy
Being part of this group requires mutual trust. Authentic, expressive discussions make groups great, but may also be sensitive and private. What's shared in the group should stay in the group.
6.    Advertising Servers
For the time being, other servers and games can freely be discussed in Discord.
7.    Bot Presence
Do not invite unapproved bots/selfbots. Inviting unapproved bots will result in punishment


(1) SERVER WIDE RULESET
---

1 a. Stream Sniping is NOT PERMITTED in any way shape or form and a streamer can use certain tools to see who is watching.

1 b. Metagaming is NOT PERMITTED. Any information you gain through Streams/Videos out of game cannot be used or divulged to anyone for ingame use.

1 c. You CANNOT use multiple steam accounts to run multiple characters on this server, we permit only 1 character per player.

1 d. You may NOT use any type of known exploit ingame, anyone found using an exploit for their own advantage will be punished as per the punishment tier. 
      This includes but is not limited to
      - Base Raiding
      - Lock Picking
      - Item Duplication 
      - Fame Farming

1 e. Combat logging is NOT tolerated in any instance. This is when engaging someone or being engaged in combat/shooting/punching.

1 f. If you wish to de-engage from ongoing combat, you MUST make sure you leave the area and not be shot or shoot anyone for a duration of 10 minutes.

1 g. Anyone found using official in game events in ANY abusive ways shall be subject to the punishment tiers described in the rulebook (2) Punishments.

1 h. You may NOT BLOCK Roads with Pallisades, Doors, Chairs etc. However you are ALLOWED to place items to slow vehicles down. (Drivers must be able to pass through the obstacles).

1 i. Admins will wear a yellow raincoat when performing Admin duties. Wearing a yellow raincoat while not being on Admin duty, especially if not an Admin at all, will result in punishment.

1 j. Shooting an Admin in a yellow raincoat while performing Admin duties, results in a penalty.


(2) PUNISHMENTS
---

2 a. You are subject to 4 possible tiers of punishment. A Vocal or Written Warning will be at Admin discretion. For any punishments, the person will be notified of the action taken.

2 b.  You will be stripped of all your Gear and sent to Prison for 20mins, along with an appropriate deduction of your Fame/SC Bank Account.

2 c. You will be temporarily banned for the duration of 24 hours. (Realtime Value).

2 d. You will be Permanently banned from the Server.


(3) REPORTING CHEATERS / EXPLOITS
---


3 a. To report a cheater or exploiter just contact any member of the Admin Team by Direct Message.

3 b. You may report a suspicious Game mechanic / Player at any time.

3 c. Any video Evidence certainly helps us investigating any claims of abuse.

3 d. Claims of any cheating / exploiting / abuse are taken seriously. Reporting knowingly false claims could result in a Tier Punishment.

3 e. Contact an Admin with a name, a suggested timespan and said evidence.

3 f. Do not post this report into the public channels. Public "Witchhunt" is not endorsed.


(4) KOS RULESET
---

4 a. All areas EXCLUDING A1 and A2 , Tec-1 Safezones and the CTH (Central Trading Hub) are KOS (Kill on Sight).

4 b. Applying the above, an engagement may only end if one player relocates into a NON-KOS (RP-Zone), aswell as breaks their Line-Of-Sight for more than 10 minutes.

4 c. "Borderlining" any NON-KOS zone or ingame safezone to get an advantage over another player, is considered an abuse and is subject to a punishment from an Admin. A player leaving a safezone to engage in a fight may not return in it until the fight is over.


(5) VEHICLE RULESET
---

5 a. If your Car is being stolen in an RP-Sector you may shoot.

5 b. Being within the RP Sectors, you are allowed to create a Roadblock (Shelters, Torches, Headsticks, ...). (6 e.) Roleplay + Safezone Ruleset applies while being in a Roadblock-Scenario.

5 d. If you are in a car and spot someone (Regarless if they have seen you) in an RP sector, neither of you can just get out and start shooting.

5 e. Car hoarding is NOT PERMITTED. Any Gang / Squad / Base found to be holding more than 5 Vehicles (all vehicle types count) will have 24 hours to sell it / give away etc. If after 24 hours you still have more than 5 Vehicles , Admins will destroy the excess.


(6) ROLEPLAY + SAFEZONE RULESET
---


6 a. In Safe Zones you can ROLEPLAY but there should NOT be any killing (unless a rule enforces it, i.e Safe Zone Roadblocks). If someone is breaking the rules here, report it to an Admin as usual and give us video evidence if possible.

6 b. Houses CAN be locked, fortified and loot can be stored.

6 c. If you discover someone lockpicking or raiding your base, you must talk to, or warn them through INGAME TEXT CHAT. If they continue or ignore your warning then you may Protect your base as you see fit. If killing occurs, the Admins will be notified so ensure you have evidence to show you gave appropriate warning.

6 d. Cars parked at the Central Trading Hub MAY NOT be stolen. Stealing Cars in other safezone areas is permitted.

6 e. Placing mines anywhere in safezones of all nature is not permitted. The exception to that is for defensive purposes in the immediate vicinity (20m) of a base you may have built in A1.

6 f. The above rules apply for all safezones, regardless of nature (CTH, RP sector, ingame safezone...).


(7) FORTIFICATION RULESET
---

7 a. Fortifying a building can only be done in your own Gang Turf. You may not fortify buildings in other turf towns. 

7 b. Gangs are allowed to build bases only in the Sector where their Gang Turf is located, and the adjacent (including diagonal) Sectors.

7 c. You CANNOT fortify any buildings within any Military Zones. Anyone found doing so will have their loot automatically destroyed or taken outside.

7 d. You CAN claim any other buildings on the Island that are not Contested or Gang Turfs, i.e Cabins, Farms, small towns that are not listed as Contested / Military / Gang Turf.

7 e. The CITY in D3 / D4 CAN be fortified but NOT claimed as a Gang Turf. Expect competition.

7 f. Any glitches or exploits used in regards to looting buildings or protecting loot WILL mean your boxes will either be destroyed or the prisoner will be punished in accordance with the Rules (2) Punishments.

7 g. Palisades are NOT to be placed in a way to block access to your base doors, cabins or boxes. All loot and vehicles must be accessible by ways of lock picking. Flag access is an exception to this rule.

7 h. If a gang loses their turf, the bases they own may NOT be altered or maintained until control is reestablished over the Sector the base is in.

7 i. Squads/Players may only build a single base per gang, and this base cannot exceed 1 flag in size

7 j. Walling off entire towns, or portions of towns larger than a single flag, is no longer permitted.


(8) GANG CREATION
---

8 a. You need to have at least 4 members to be able to create a Gang. Your Gang must not exceed 10 members total at any time.

8 b. You need to choose a fitting uniform, which does not resemble another Gangs' Uniform. A Uniform consists of any Apparel Item, which does not provide any tactical advantage over others.

8 c. Every gang should have a short paragraph/story written giving the gangs backstory and origins.

8 d. Gang themes should be entirely fictional, gangs will not be permitted to base themselves on real religious, ideological or historical factions/regimes.

8 e. New Gangs must choose a HQ Turf from the ones available on our Map.

8 f. You will recieve a 7 day Grace Period from when you choose your HQ Turf. Meaning a Gang v Gang event cannot be initiated against you until after your 7 day Grace Period or you decide to initiate one yourselves (Resulting in the Grace Period being cancelled). Raiding and PvP is still PERMITTED in the 7 day Grace.


(9) GANG MANAGEMENT
---

9 a. You are entitled to contact an Admin to personalize your Gang Category.

9 b. Gang members are required to wear their Gang Uniforms during Gang events listed in #❗event-playbooks❗ .


(10) ALLIANCE + MERCENARY RULESET
---

10 a. Alliances may be formed only to help in TURF-ASSAULTS. They may NOT help with ZOMBIE TAKEOVERS. Each Gang may only have ONE Ally.

10 b. Mercenaries may be HIRED for contracts (i.e. Looting, Building, Defending etc.) or TURF-ASSAULTS. They may NOT be hired for ZOMBIE TAKEOVERS.

10 c. Mercenary Gangs must execute their contracts alone. (Excluding Contracts for Defence and other Non PvP Situations).

10 d. When Raiding / PvPing in Towns or Built Bases you may NOT have multiple teams / squads attacking the same targets / gang.


(11) EVENTS HOSTED BY ADMINS
---

Note that the events will be hosted by an admin only if they are available. Admins donate their time to the server on a voluntary basis so show understanding if no one can host the event you want at the time you want.
For now, only the following events will officially be supported. More will be added over time. You may still request any of the other events but the other people involved may refuse to run it or take part to it without penalty: the event simply won't happen without consent from all parties involved.
- Zombie Takeover
- Turf assault

11 a. The list of available events and their organisation are available in #❗event-playbooks❗.

11 b. Other occasional events will be held, and their rules and organisation posted in a dedicated channel.

11 c. Events are hosted by one or several Admins that log on as drones to oversee the event. Their instructions are to be complied with. Failure to do so can lead to punishments as (2) Punishments.

11 d. Unless otherwise stated, all Gang v Gang events need to have a team number difference of 2 at most. For example, if Team A has 8 participants, Team B needs to have 6 to 10 participants. If Team B has only 5 participants available, Team A may only deploy 7 participants even if they have more available.

11 e. Placing mines in the location, in advance of a Gang v Gang event, is not permitted. Failure to comply will result in immediate loss of the infringing team as well as further penalties.

11 f. Chopping trees in the location to gain field of view advantage due to the tree rendering glitch, is not permitted. Failure to comply will result in immediate loss of the infringing team as well as further penalties.

11 g. If one of the participating gangs does not show up by the time the event starts, the other gets victory as soon as they secure the target building and the absentee gang gets no leaderboard reward.


(12) REWARDS
---

For now, due to GPortal not allowing the bots to collect the logs anymore, we will return to rewards based on turfs owned over time. Solos will still get their little something too.

(13) Mines/Traps
--- 

13 a. Traps (mines, bombs, spike traps...) are to be used exclusively for defensive and base raiding purposes, and may only be placed within 100m of your own base/gang town. For bases this is 100m from the outer wall, for gang towns it is 100m from nearest town building, for walled off gang towns that's 100m from the walls. Note the exception of A1 bases, as described in section 6 of this ruleset. Traps can also be used to raid enemy constructions, but cannot be left behind: blowing up a wall is fine, leaving mines behind is not.
Note: this does not concern alarms that can be placed wherever you please.

13 b. Bombs may be placed on roads in an attempt to ambush vehicles however these bombs must be diffused and taken away or destroyed once the ambush is abandoned/over.
